Welcome to our garden – our most beautiful
garden, and this is Claudia. Do you know what?
There is flowers everywhere Claudia and there
is birds everywhere but also lots of…….
bees!
Oh yes absolutely, do you like bees?
Yeah, they are cool!
What do they do to you?
Well they make honey.
Oh yes absolutely. And good stuff to eat aye!
Yeah.
Oh brilliant.
But I think one thing they do is more important
– its pollination. Do you know what that
is?
I think it’s when the bees take pollen from
one flower to another.
Bingo - absolutely right! Now to show us we
are going to borrow something from Aunty Julie.
Let’s go.
These are lilies, and these are the red orangey
sticky pollen of the lilies which have to
be transferred to the female of another flower
of the lilies. And that is pollination. It’s
quite simple really, without pollination there
wouldn’t be any apples.
That’s right.
There wouldn’t be any lemons and there wouldn’t
be any pears.
Without pollination, there won’t be any
little beans whatsoever.
Without bumble bees, we wouldn’t have any
tomatoes to eat.
So pollination is very important to plants
because it gives them fruits and seeds and
nuts and basically baby plants. Oh yes its
all about reproduction. But have you ever
wondered what pollen actually look like when
you put it under a microscope? They are beautiful.
They are so pretty and well adapted. You see
some pollen go through the air. They disperse
by winds, others are dispersed by birds.
They have little barbs on them that stick
to the feathers of the birds. Some pollen
are licked up by geckos. Yep they lick the
plants, they lick the nectar and they take
the pollen from flower to flower. There are
even flowers that are pollinated by bats.
Now get that, bats, in the middle of the night.
But most pollination of course is done by
insects.
Now let’s take a look at what insects pollinate.
There are flies, oh yes flies. There are beetles,
sometimes really small tiny beetles that go
from flower to flower. Of course there are
also native bees that live in holes in the
ground but they pollinate, for instance, tee
tree, mänuka, all sorts of native plants.
They do a fantastic job. So why are all these
insects and birds, gecko and bats for that
matter, attracted to pollinate the flowers?
Well they get a reward. Nectar – that’s
the reward!
I bet you’ve never seen this before aye?
Here is a flax flower and when you squeeze
it, look, you can see the moisture coming
out now. That is nectar. That’s what all
these pollinators are after – neat aye!
And by the way, can you see this lovely orange
pollen? They are so bright they really stand
out staying “eat me”.
So all of these insects Claudia take the nectar
– and what do bees do with it?
They take it to their hives.
Yeah and what then?
They make honey.
That’s right. They do, do you like honey?
Yeah.
Do you when the bees get into the hive do
you know how they put the nectar out of their
system and into the hive? You know how they
do that? Bluuuurrrrrr.
You still like honey?
Yep.
Alright! You know that honey is really good
for you for you don’t you?
Yep.
Ok, have you ever wondered why honey is so
good as a medicine?
Yeah I have.
Well what is it?
I don’t know. Can you tell me why?
If you are a plant and you want pollinators
to come to give you seeds and fruits and to
do your reproduction for you and you give
them a reward called nectar, you’ve got
to make sure the nectar is in perfect condition
– no fungi, no germs, no bacteria. So when
the bees then take the nectar to the nest
and make it into honey, it is chock full of
goodies! And that’s why honey is so good
for you!
Mmmmm, delicious!